---
title:  XrmToolBox
keywords: xrmtoolbox, webresources
summary: "Navtabs provide a tab-based navagation directly in your content, allowing users to click from tab to tab to see different panels of condtent."
sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
permalink: mydoc_xrmtoolbox_tool.html
toc: false
folder: mydoc
---

<ul id="profileTabs" class="nav nav-tabs">
    <li class="active"><a class="noCrossRef" href="#bpf-manager" data-toggle="tab">BPF Manager</a></li>
    <li><a class="noCrossRef" href="#early-bound-generator" data-toggle="tab">Early Bound Generator</a></li>
    <li><a class="noCrossRef" href="#early-translator" data-toggle="tab">Early Translator</a></li>
    <li><a class="noCrossRef" href="#fetchxml-builder" data-toggle="tab">FetchXML Builder</a></li>
    <li><a class="noCrossRef" href="#plugin-registration" data-toggle="tab">Plugin Registration</a></li>
    <li><a class="noCrossRef" href="#plugin-trace-viewer" data-toggle="tab">Plugin Trace Viewer</a></li>
    <li><a class="noCrossRef" href="#ribbon-workbench" data-toggle="tab">Ribbon Workbench</a></li>
    <li><a class="noCrossRef" href="#webresources-manager" data-toggle="tab">Webresources Manager</a></li>
</ul>
<div class="tab-content">
<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane active" id="bpf-manager" markdown="1">
## Allows you to change BPFs on individual or multiple records
### 🪜 Steps
1. Select the records through a view or with FetchXMLBuilder
2. Retrieve the records
3. Select the target stage of BPF
4. Choose the Yes option
5. Migrate the records
{% include image.html file="bpfmanager.png" max-width="100%" %}
</div>

<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="plugin-registration" markdown="1">
## Plugin Registration
#### Allows you to view and edit server-side code.  
`Asynchronous` : Blocks the user before saving  
`Synchronous` : Does not block the user before saving and runs after saving  
`Pre-image` : Captures data from a table before/after saving  
`Post-image` : Captures data from a table after saving  
</div>

<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="plugin-trace-viewer" markdown="1">
## Plugin Trace Viewer
* Allows you to debug/view all server-side code executions.
</div>

<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="early-bound-generator" markdown="1">
## Early Bound Generator
`Use the V1`
* Allows you to generate a new table or field.
* It's important to edit the settings path with the XML generated by your solution
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=imgpdO_MWdE" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">YouTube: documentation</a>
</div>

<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="early-translator" markdown="1">
## Early Translator
* Allows you to manage translations via XML export/import
* Language codes : French (1036) / English (1033) / Spanish (3082)
* Import only what has been modified to avoid a timeout
</div>

<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="fetchxml-builder" markdown="1">
## FetchXML Builder
* Allows you to query data using a specific format (useful for Power Automate or server-side development).
{% include image.html file="xrmfetchxmlbuilder.png" max-width="50%" %}
</div>

<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="ribbon-workbench" markdown="1">
## Allows you to custom button properties, including display and enable rules.
### ⚙️ How to create a dynamic button based on record's table
1. In Ribbon workbench, drag and drop the flyout button in the form section of the ribbon
2. Define two functions in your javascript file (<a href="/Documentation/javascript/dynamicribbon.js" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">See the code here</a>) :
* populateRibbonMenu: for generating the dynamic button items. Using FetchXML, you can retrieve the records to show in the items. `You can add a subgrid in the form to associate teams to the record and display button items only to users who belong to those linked teams.`
* populateRibbonClick: for handling click events on those items. Define here the actions you want to execute when a user clicks an item.  

{% include tip.html content="To simplify your FetchXML creation, use a table view to define filters. Then download the FetchXML from the view for use in your code. This also helps you identify the names of linked entity relationships more easily." file="downloadfetchxml.png" max-width="85%" %}

3. Create two commands linked to your javascript functions
{% include image.html file="clickribbonmenucommand.png.png" max-width="100%" %}
{% include image.html file="populateribbonmenucommand.png.png" max-width="100%" %}
4. Finish to set the button parameters
{% include image.html file="flyoutbutton.png" max-width="100%" %}

* By default, the button will not appear after reopening RIbbon workbench, you need to export the solution and edit the solution.xml to change "Location="Mscrm.Form.lead.MainTab.Save.Controls._children" to this "Location="Mscrm.Form.lead.MainTab.ModernClient.Controls._children" 
</div>

<div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="webresources-manager" markdown="1">
## Webresources Manager
* Allows you to edit client-side code  
* Press Ctrl+S, then Ctrl+U to publish  
</div>
</div>

{% include links.html %}
